NARRATOR:
In a land of myth and a time of magic...
...the destiny of a great kingdom
rests on the shoulders of a young man.
His name: Merlin.
It's time.
Sire, we're under attack!
They're within the city walls.
All quarters of Camelot
are now under our control.
ARTHUR:
Agravaine.
They're coming for Arthur.
If they find him, they'll kill him.
ELYAN: We have to make it across the border,
find sanctuary anywhere we can.
You're smugglers?
If you're caught, you could be killed.
Tristan and Isolde? I don't think so.
-Who the hell are you?
-My name is Arthur Pendragon.
We had a deal.
Partners for life, remember?
-Guinevere.
-Hello, Arthur.
AGRAVAINE:
Ensure the village is surrounded.
No one must escape.
[PEOPLE SCREAMING]
Agravaine. He's found us.
MERLIN:
I'll cover our tracks. You keep going.
[SPEAKING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[CREATURE SCREECHES]
Take cover!
[SCREAMING]
ARTHUR:
Did you lose them?
-We're safe.
-You're sure?
-Do I look like an idiot?
-Yes.
He doesn't change,
does he?
Which way now?
| thought you said you grew up
in these tunnels.
| did. It could be that way.
-Or it could be that way.
-Yes.
That's very reassuring.
[MEN GROANING]
[CREATURE SCREECHES]
Run!
TRISTAN:
So you know Arthur?
GWEN:
| was a servant in Camelot.
-To Arthur?
-No.
So why are you here?
He's my king.
Can't say I've detected
many kingly qualities so far.
GWEN:
Well, maybe you don't know him.
[CLATTERING IN DISTANCE]
Shh!
[CLATTERING]
| thought you said
we'd lost them.
| thought I had.
It won't take long
for them to catch us.
-I'll go back.
-What are you going to do?
MERLIN: Create a diversion.
-It's too risky.
| know these tunnels.
Agravaine doesn't. You keep going.
Merlin.
Don't do anything stupid.
Me?
[CLATTERING]
Oh, hello!
AGRAVAINE:
Merlin!
Merlin.
Where's Arthur?
Be careful.
What are you talking about?
Where's Arthur?
Tell me. Now.
Or I'll have to kill you.
| don't think so.
Ah.
[COUGHS THEN GASPING]
You have magic.
| was born with it.
So it's you.
You're Emrys.
That is what the druids call me.
And you've been at court
all this time, eh?
At Arthur's side.
[CHUCKLES]
How you've managed
to deceive him. Ha, ha.
| am impressed, Merlin.
Perhaps we're more alike than you think.
[SHOUTS]
TRISTAN: What are you doing?
-Shh!
[CLATTERING]
-Merlin.
-He knows the tunnels.
-He'll find his way.
-I'm going back.
For a servant?
You're wrong about him.
ARTHUR:
Merlin!
Where have you been?
-Were you worried about me?
-No.
| was making sure
we weren't being followed.
You came back to look for me.
All right. It's true.
| came back because you're the only friend
| have, and I couldn't bear to lose you.
-Really?
-Don't be stupid.
TRISTAN:
So where now?
To the plains
beyond the mountains.
You sure?
That's Lot's kingdom.
He's no friend of the Pendragons.
Well, maybe we could find somewhere
here. A house where we could rest.
We're fugitives,
a danger to anyone who harbors us.
MERLIN: He's right.
We must travel back towards Camelot.
-No. We need to keep going.
-We'll be safe in the Forest of Ascetir.
-At least for a while.
-No.
If anyone has survived this battle,
that's where they'll be hiding.
TRISTAN:
| know which I'd do.
You're the king, Arthur.
You're our leader.
All right.
Forest of Ascetir it is.
[BELLS TOLLING]
Come on, Gaius. Hold fast.
[KEYS JANGLING]
[DOOR OPENS]
[GRUNTS]
Don't worry.
At least we'll get to eat.
So you've had a chance
to sing for your supper.
| thought I might make it
a little harder this time.
Seems fair.
Oh, but you can't fight
with your bare hands.
Never mind.
You're a knight of Camelot.
You'll be fine.
[MEN CLAMORING]
What the hell.
Well, well, well. Look at you.
First you go back to rescue your servant.
Now you're getting your hands dirty.
But then again,
why shouldn't you?
You're just like everyone else.
There's nothing special about you,
is there?
Maybe you're right.
Maybe I don't deserve to be king.
Well, that's all right,
because you're not.
Not anymore.
[THUNDER RUMBLES]
-Arthur? Arthur.
-Don't.
What happened in Ealdor
was a moment's weakness.
What you did to me--
Everything I cherished between us,
everything we had, it's gone.
And it'll never change.
I'm sorry.
Enjoy your supper.
For it will be your last.
You need to eat.
Whether I eat or not...
...I'm not long for this world.
Come on, Gaius.
I'm a physician, Elyan.
| spent my days
watching the cycle of life.
If there's one thing I'm not afraid of,
it's death.
Don't waste your food.
If Gwaine has to fight again...
...he'll need all the strength he can get.
Come on. I'll take watch.
Arthur, what's the matter?
Don't listen to Tristan.
He doesn't know you.
| trusted the wrong people.
They betrayed you. That wasn't your fault.
No. I was a fool.
| misjudged everyone.
My uncle.
Morgana.
Every decision I've made has been wrong.
-You're being too hard on yourself.
- I should be more discerning, wise.
A statesman, a king.
Tristan's right.
There's nothing special about me.
-I'm just like everyone else.
-You're not.
-You're a worthy king.
-I'm good with a sword.
-That's all.
-Your people love you.
Most of them are dead...
-...thanks to me.
-No. Most of them escaped.
And they'll be here in the forest.
I'm sure of that.
If they are, they'll have
to find themselves a new king.
Arthur.
[SHOUTING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
Well, thank you. You saved us all.
The land of Albion and the future
we have all fought for was in peril.
What is troubling you, young warlock?
It's Arthur. He's lost the will to fight.
He feels he's failed his people.
He believes he no longer deserves to be king.
The fate of Camelot rests in your hands,
young warlock.
For you and you alone...
...can restore the king's faith.
How?
You must make him believe
that he can be king once more.
| wish I could be of more help, Merlin.
No.
| know how.
The people who fled Camelot,
do you know where they're hiding?
| am a dragon. I can cover
many leagues in the blink of an eye.
They shouldn't be
too hard to find.
Then we have no time to lose.
-What?
-There's something I need to show you.
This had better be good,
because this really isn't the time...
...for one of your ridiculous games.
| was thinking about last night
and how you were saying...
...how you'd given up all hope, how you were
a poor leader and a shoddy king.
ARTHUR: Shoddy?
-All right. Shabby.
ARTHUR:
Thanks.
Well, it reminded me
of a tale Gaius once told me.
Merlin, I'm really not interested
in your favorite bedtime stories.
For once in your life, just listen.
Many years ago,
before the birth of the five kingdoms...
...this land was in an endless cycle
of bloodshed and war.
But one man was determined
to end all that.
He gathered together the elders of each tribe
and drew up plans for their lands to be divided.
Each would respect
the others' boundaries...
...and rule over the land as they saw fit.
That man was Camelot's first king...
...ancestor to all that followed,
including you, Arthur.
-Bruta.
-You know the story?
Yes. Every child in Camelot does.
Can I go back to bed now?
No, because there's another part
of the story that you haven't heard.
-Really?
-When Bruta was on his deathbed...
...he asked to be taken deep
into the forest.
There, with the last of his strength...
...he thrust his sword into a rock.
If his lineage was ever questioned,
this would form a test.
Only a true king of Camelot
could pull the weapon free.
Are you making this up?
Of course not.
All right.
If it's true,
why haven't I heard this story?
Well, history isn't really
your strong point, is it?
ARTHUR;:
Then where is this rock?
Oh, it was lost many years ago
during the Great Purge.
But...
...I've managed to find it.
I've never heard so much rubbish
in my entire life.
-Are you calling Gaius a liar?
-No. I'm calling you an idiot.
What's that then?
What the hell are you playing at?
I'm proving that you're their leader
and their king.
That sword is stuck fast in solid stone.
-And you're going to pull it out.
-Merlin, it's impossible.
Arthur, you're the true king of Camelot.
-Do you want me to look like a fool?
-I'm going to make you see that Tristan's wrong.
You aren't just anyone. You are special.
You and you alone can draw out that sword.
You'd better be right about this.
You have to believe, Arthur.
[EXHALING]
[PANTING]
You're destined to be Albion's greatest king.
Nothing, not even this stone,
can stand in your way.
Have faith.
Long live the king!
ALL: Long live the king!
When they arrived there,
the ground itself was still on fire.
They'd all been slaughtered,
every last one of them.
And Agravaine?
Dead.
There's only one person
who could have done this.
Only one man
who could command a dragon.
This is the work of Emrys.
-What about the drawbridge?
-Well-manned. As are the northern gates.
The battlements on the south side?
Arthur, even if we can get inside,
she has an army.
And we have what-- Few hundred?
-And they still outnumber us.
-Yeah, but only 3-to-1.
-And do you think they'll fight?
-They'll fight for Arthur.
It's not for me they have to fight for.
It's for Camelot.
No, Arthur.
It is you the people love...
...and you that they will lay down
their lives for.
| know that I would ride
into the mouth of hell for you.
And I.
Then to the mouth of hell it is.
What's this for?
Never give up hope.
Love is stronger than anything.
Believe me.
You all right?
Yes.
Do you think
there are too many of them?
The Southrons are men like you and me.
Men we can fight.
But Morgana...
...her power is so great,
and we've got nothing to answer it with.
- I never finished Gaius's story.
-Not now, Merlin. Please.
Will you just listen?
When the sword
was thrust into the stone...
...the ancient king foretold
that one day it would be freed again...
...at a time when Camelot
needed it most.
The man who freed it would
unite the land of Albion...
...and rule over the greatest kingdom
the world has ever known.
That man is you, Arthur.
You're making this up.
Why would I do that?
Your head's already as big as your waist.
| believe it though.
And I believe in you.
| always have.
[SPEAKING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[GROANS]
MORGANA:
We must send emissaries to Lot's kingdom.
We must offer a reward for Arthur's capture.
It's him. It's Emrys. He's here.
Guards!
[SPEAKING IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[ VOICES WHISPERING]
[CHUCKLES]
[BELLS TOLLING]
We've searched everywhere.
He fled, Morgana.
He trembled at the sight of you.
Why was he here?
Why does he choose to taunt me like this?
We must hold our nerve.
Maybe you should get some sleep.
Make sure there are guards on the door.
[VOICES WHISPERING]
ARTHUR:
Wakey, wakey.
You look like you've
been up half the night.
| was. Couldn't sleep.
| thought you said you had faith in me.
Whatever gave you that idea?
[INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE]
Over there.
This is where we say good-bye.
TRISTAN:
Arthur.
All my life, I've shied away
from other people's wars...
...and despised the power and wealth
that kings buy with the lives of men.
But you've shown yourself to be different.
You've shown us that you fight for
what is right and fair.
And for that reason...
...we would like to fight at your side.
I'd be honored to have you at my side.
We'll stand together as equals.
Arthur?
If anything happens to us,
| want you to know--
-Guinevere--
-I understand why you can't forgive me.
But I never once stopped loving you.
Never once.
[GRUNTS]
[THUMPS THEN GROANS]
[BELLS TOLLING]
[GRUNTS]
-It seems we have company.
-Emrys.
Arthur.
My dear brother.
We must welcome him home.
Shall we?
[VOICES WHISPERING]
It is as we expected.
He is making his way here.
He should be with us soon.
And we'll be waiting.
[YELLS]
[KEYS JANGLING] ]
Come on, boys.
What's taken you so long?
You all right?
I've been locked up with Gwaine for a week.
Gaius.
All right, come on.
[MEN YELLING IN DISTANCE]
One each. Pick your man.
On me!
[MEN SHOUTING
AND SWORDS CLANGING IN DISTANCE]
I'm going to enjoy this.
Whatever happened to the idea
of finding a bit of land and settling down?
-You know, this thing's not bad.
-Thought you might like it.
Ready?
ALL: For the love of Camelot!
For the love of Camelot!
Welcome, dear brother.
It's been far too long.
| apologize if you had a difficult reception.
It's hard to know who to trust these days.
What happened to you, Morgana?
| thought we were friends.
As did I.
But alas, we were both wrong.
You can't blame me for my father's sins.
It's a little late for that.
You've made it perfectly clear
how you feel about me and my kind.
You're not as different from Uther
as you'd like to think.
Nor are you.
I'm going to enjoy killing you,
Arthur Pendragon.
Not even Emrys can save you now.
Your blades cannot stop me.
[SPEAKS IN ANCIENT LANGUAGE]
[VOICES WHISPERING]
Not so powerful now, my lady.
After her!
[GRUNTING]
[GROANS]
[YELLS]
[SWORD SLICES]
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
What did I do to make you
hate me so much?
It's not what you did.
It's what you're destined to do.
And I'm sorry, Gwen,
but I can never let that happen.
[RUMBLING]
-Are you all right?
-Yes.
What happened?
| don't know.
-I'm sorry.
-Shh.
Our dreams.
Isolde, don't.
ISOLDE: I wish--
TRISTAN: I wish too.
Hold me.
[BELLS TOLLING]
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACH]
It will take some time.
Merlin can take care of it.
If you want me to go,
to return to Ealdor--
| want you to stay.
-Guinevere--
-You don't have to say anything.
-Whatever's happened between us--
-I can't forgive myself.
| don't care.
| just don't ever want to lose you.
Will you marry me?
Yes.
Yes, with all my heart.
By the sacred laws vested in me...
...crown you...
...Guinevere...
...queen of Camelot.
Long live the queen!
ALL:
[PANTING]
[GROANS]
[EXHALES]
[WINGS FLAPPING]
[CHITTERING]
[HISSES]
MAN:
Merlin.
[English - US - SDH]